In the last lecture we have other this box on the right side of our blog post least which shows the
most commented blog post which means blog posts which have at most comments.
And we achieved that using local queries scopes inside a blog post model.
So let's continue with this example.
But this time will add a local query scope to the user model and we will fetch users that have the most
blog post written.
So let's go ahead and go to the user model.
So you see it up.
It has a relation to a blog post model.
So let's now add a local query scope.
So this would be a function which name starts with scope and the scope name could be with most blog
posts.
And the argument that each it receives is a query builder mind that you do not really have to type and
it with the object type.
But while it's useful if you are using ideas or even individuals to your code it can give you some hints
at what are the available methods.
So let's try it out.
This would be a query builder.
So it's a builder object.
And it should be somewhere on the list it is from the namespace illuminate database query builder.
So be sure to choose the correct one.
Now press enter and we'll have it ultimately added to their use statement list.
OK.
Let's go ahead with implementing our scope.
So this should also be pretty straightforward.
So what we can do is query with count.
So we want this.
We want to fetch users with their account of the blog posts.
Relation and finally will order by and the name of this new field that will be returned along with the
users is blog posts count and we want to sort that in descending order so we get the users with at most
blog posts written first.
Now let's go to that post controller and we'll pass another parameter
let's call it most active
and we'll fetch that from user.
Let's see what was the method name with most blog posts.
Ok so we can do user with most blog posts.
We'll also take five or basically will take at most five because when you use take it basically limits
the query so it is adding Eskew will limit statements.
So it will only fetch utmost five items might be less of course.
And finally get to execute the query and get the result.
Now minds that we might not have the User model imported in post control or so let's do that now use
up user
now let's go to the template.
So this is our car that we have added for the most commented blog posts but since now we'll have another
one.
It might be a good idea to add a container class so we can use the bootstrap grid system.
Now try to follow me.
Might be a little bit confusing to look up all this HDMI mail.
So that's why I always comment all the changes that you make after each lecture so you can see how this
should look exactly and you won't make any mistakes.
So this is the right column.
Inside it will put up another container.
So then we can put each individual card into a separate row.
So let's do that div class roll
OK.
Now we will have to indent that card.
Maybe let's also change the style to be with hundred percent.
Take the whole screen.
And now what we can do is we can select this roll and just based on other one because we will also display
the most active users in our card which will be well below this one with the most commented blog posts.
So lets out some title most active and will say that users with most posts written.
Now here we are iterating over most comment that now we should iterate over most active most active
US user as this is not a post anymore.
And since we currently do not have any profile pages of the user.
This won't be a link we'll just display the user name.
So we will simply echo the user name
well this should be.
Basically we also you can also notice that this template is starting to grow.
So it is really unreadable.
And we have a lot of code inside it.
But don't worry just after we finish our lectures about the quarry scope we'll work with that and you
will learn how you can create larval blade components.
So stay tuned and don't worry about a little bit messy HDMI all right now.
OK.
Let's save the changes and see if that works by refreshing the page.
It seems that I have important the wrong class so I should have imported illuminate database query builder
and I have imported now.
Sorry.
The other way this should be important and I've imported a different one.
So let's fix that quickly.
So it complains about this import a lot of classes with builder name and you have to look out for the
proper import.
So that should be the correct one.
Make sure you fix that.
Now let's refresh and this is what we get.
Those are the users which happen to have utmost posts.
So it's really hard to see that when you have so many blog posts on the index page so we can also open
Tinker and verify if that actually works.
So I will enlarge the terminal a little bit and let's start BHP artisan Tinker
and fetch users with most blog posts
and let's see.
So it should be now ordered by the amount of blog posts that user users have and what we can see at
the top is at least in my database.
It happens to be Canada on my Glenn with six posts and then there is John Doe our admin with four posts.
So let's see that much as well.
It seems that it does.
Obviously the names can be different on your system us.
We are just generating them using seeds.
So it might be different.
Even the numbers can be different so remember about that.
OK.
So it seems to be working perfectly now.
Let's go back to the template and another thing we can fix with that is so we can add some marking at
the top so empty two means marking top two.
Well maybe let's at four because it doesn't add enough spacing.
OK.
Now it should be more clear.
So that was another example of what we can do with the query scopes and you might see couple of problems
that we are having right now.
So.
Well there aren't really a big or pressing problems but first one is that our index template for the
blog posts seem to be having too much stuff inside it and we'll solve that in the next section.
And another one might be that for every time we visit our list of the blog posts we fetch older blog
posts from the database.
Then we also execute queries for fetching most comment and blog posts and then we fetch another user.
We do another query to fetch the most active users.
So this can take quite a big load on the database especially if it is being executed each time you see
a list of the blog posts and active users and most comment and blog posts even if they don't change.
So we'll also solve that in the next section.
I'm not saying next lecture but next section when we will introduce a lot of old blade components and
caching.
So stay tuned for the next lecture when we'll work more with the query scopes.